foreign electrician's for active duty. You tend to do your first two years
of school. That includes electrical training and learning about
how the nuclear, uh, nuclear reactor works on how to become an operated
for it. Um, the next four years should be spent on a ship. Now,
that's just basically, uh, understanding how to do the technical aspect
of it. Um, you're gonna be, uh, third class petty officer, second
class petty officer, um, down there in the plants, Um, sometimes
in the bills sometimes, um, working in, uh, in close operating station
with, uh, watch upside down That's down there sometimes just going
from level to level level, um, looking at pumps and valves and gauges.
And, uh, you know, the fixing things, doing preventive maintenance
after you become a first class petty officer, then you've done that
for the most part, and you're kind of supervising people. Um, you
do that for about a couple of years, So you're at about your eight
year mark, maybe even nine year mark, that you've been doing that Not
only have you been a first class petty officer who who's been training
people, but you've also had other experiences you've been maybe
the training pitch officer, which, um, has a job of showing people
all of the tech manuals and what's inside the tech manuals and how
to read things from the tech manuals and doing power power Point presentations
on some equipment that they've never seen before. You know,
that's when you kind of like extend, um, how our extended learning
that we've done. Um, there's like three m co ordinator, where you
and three in coordinator is not just a job for just Electrician's. It's
like for for all the rates. And that's where you, um, make sure
that all of the all of the work is done in accordance with some procedure,
according Thio, whatever equipment you're supposed to be working
on, so, um yeah, I'll leave it alone. But the point is, you go from
job to job to job a za first class. So you have a really good perspective
of the whole entire ship. Um, thing you might become a chief,
And once you becoming chief, you actually start talking to the officers
a lot more. It's kind of like your world kind of flips up. Um,
you can think of it like a like one of those. Our glasses and the
first class and the chief are kind of like in the middle. And once
you become a chief, you still have to talk to the unit, Um, some. But
it's more about telling the first class what he supposed to do. He
filters it down, and then the first class tells you and then you filter
it up. So that's when you start becoming more administrative oriented.
You tell the watch officer, um, what's going on the plant? What
maintenance is being performed? Um, And in the unit, you, uh, make
sure that everybody is on track to become promoted toe. Make sure
that they're on track tow, cover all of their watches. And if there's
some kind of problem with that, then you can you can you address
it seeing chiefs and master chiefs. They're a little bit more specific.
Um, so if you become a senior chief, you do a lot of the things
that a chief also does. But you also have a little bit more on career
progression. Um, instead of being a three m coordinator, you could
be, um, someone who is in charge of entire departments. Not just your
unit, a senior chief, because they expect you toe, of course, no
electric, uh, electrician's stuff as a senior chief. But they also expect
you to be very familiar with the e t stuff. Elektronik technician
and very familiar with the mechanical stuff. Maybe you also qualified.
Watch Super. Um, work center supervisor. I'm sorry, What supervisor
and work center supervisor Where? Um, you actually have to understand
the plant way more in depth. You could probably even write
books about it, right? Procedures about it. Um, Master Chief, that's
the highest that you could be the highest level that you could be,
um, in the military. That's a level of e nine. And that's when you are
so for the nukes, like they do have a they can't have a master chief
that's in charge of the whole entire electrical department. But
there's another master chief that's in charge of the whole entire nuclear
section and even another master chief. They're all e nine who
is in charge of the whole entire ship, and you could be either one of
those. Um, it's more like lateral transfers when you're at that level,
so yeah, to become a chief and might take about 10 years to become
seeing chief could be like 12 or 13. To become a master chief, you
could be pushing around 20 years at that time.